# publisher-subscriber-system-using-kafka

The Pub Sub system involves implementation of the Docker plugin, Flask web framework and Python modules mainly including PyPubSub and OrderedDictionary modules using Visual Studio Code as the IDE for this project. The Dockerfile configures the Python version, copies the physical python scripts and other files into the virtual environment which the Docker will compose. It will also run the requirements.txt which states all the modules required to be installed using Python PIP before running the application using the CMD command. docker-compose is a file that specifies the network configuration for the Kafka and also Flask application. Additionally, the templates folder comprises the HTML files and the text file. The 2 most important Python scripts are App.py and Main.py. App.py builds the Flask Application and also controls all the routes of the application. For instance, the /login/ route will lead you to the login page of the application. The Main.py has main functions which are listeners, publish, subscribe and more. The process is whenever a user registers, it will save the user’s data into database. The SQL database file will only contain the user table with only 10 subscribers that will register themselves to the listener function. The user will choose which topics to subscribe, it will registers the topics into the listeners function. When the publishers notify the users regarding the topics they have subscribed, the listeners function will then send the contents through a request from RapidAPI. Regarding the log display in website, it is using  a dictionary is instantiate to store the logs and outputs them to log display in website. The user will be able to view the logs display to know what is happening. The Flask app, KafkaProducer, KafkaConsumer are dockerized in Docker as 3 containers and images running to allow users to use the Pub Sub system.
